Hi guys.
I'm in the console for the Amazon simple workflow service, SWF. SWF is a web service for making it
easy to coordinate work across distributed application components.
It uses asynchronous systems as workflows and supports sequential and parallel processing.
You can track the state of your workflow and interact with it through an API.
The key use case for SWF is when you have the human enabled workflows.
For instance the fulfillment systems like I mentioned in the lesson at the beginning of this section.
So if you see an exam question that asks for a workflow execution system which requires human interaction
then that might be SWF, for most use cases you're going to look to step functions and especially
if you see those questions that come up and ask you about the visual workflow which is a feature of
step functions.
A few key facts that might be useful for SWF when it comes to the exam.
One is that SWF has a completion time of up to one year for workflow executions.
It also uses a task oriented API and ensures that a task is assigned once and never duplicated.
It also keeps track of all tasks and events in an application it uses domains or the concept of domains
which are logical containers for application resources such as workflows activities and executions the
workers are programmed to interact with SWF, have to get tasks processed, receive tasks and return the
results and then you have a decider which is a program that controls the coordination of the tasks.
In other words they're ordering that concurrency and their scheduling
so the key components therefore are domains, workflows, activities, task lists, workers, and workflow execution.
Now that's probably about the amount that you need to know for the exam and unfortunately it's not a
very easy service to work with in terms of just showing you an easy demo but you can just have a look
around the console and see what's in there so you got the workflow executions and you can list your
executions.
You've got the workflow types and then hey you can have a look at what's available or register a new
workflow and you then have your activities where again you can register your activities.
So I really don't feel we need to go into much more detail.
The key thing with SWF and Step Functions is just to understand what they are and what the
use cases are.
When would you use one over the other.